#summary Common phpVirtualBox errors and issues

See also: [http://code.google.com/p/phpvirtualbox/wiki/ConnectivityDesign connectivity design].

=Error Messages=

== Error logging in or connecting to vboxwebsrv==

This typically indicates that the username and / or password is incorrect in config.php. These must be set to the system username / password of the user that administers your VirtualBox virtual machines.

*If you have upgraded from VirtualBox 3.2.x and this was working before*, you may have to run the following commands on your VirtualBox host:

   VBoxManage setproperty vrdeauthlibrary default

   VBoxManage setproperty websrvauthlibrary default

== Could not connect to host ==

This indicates that phpVirtualBox could not connect to the vboxwebsrv server. Either the *location* setting in config.php is wrong or *vboxwebsrv* is not running on the VirtualBox host.

== The virtual machine 'vm name' has terminated unexpectedly during startup ==

This is usually an indication of some sort of misconfiguration of the VM. For instance you may have enabled "Enable VT-x/AMD-V" in the VM's configuration, but your processor does not support it (just an example). Unfortunately the only way to get the correct error message is to start the VM using another VirtualBox interface such as the VirtualBox GUI, VBoxManage, or VBoxHeadless. These should print a more descriptive error.

If the cause is not apparent through the error message, post the issue on the forums over at http://www.virtualbox.org

=Issues=

== Empty virtual machine list ==

This is usually an indication that the username / password entered in config.php is not that of the user that administers your VirtualBox virtual machines.

== Preview Box only shows VM name. Even when the VM is running. ==
	- or -
== Console Tab is ALWAYS disabled ==

To enable screen shots and the Console tab, please install a VirtualBox extension pack that supports VRDE such as the Oracle VM VirtualBox Extension Pack found in the Downloads section of http://www.virtualbox.org

== Right click menu is displayed under context menu on VM Details tab when using Firefox ==

In Firefox, click on the Tools menu -> Options -> Content -> Advanced (next to Enable JavaScript), and enable the Disable or replace context menus option.