#summary Installation of phpVirtualBox
#labels Deploy
#sidebar TableOfContents

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= VirtualBox Considerations =

phpVirtualBox requires that vboxwebsrv (a program distributed with VirtualBox) is running on your VirtualBox host. On `*`nix hosts, this is typically found in /usr/bin. On Windows, it is typically found in C:\Program Files\Oracle\VirtualBox. This program MUST be run as the same user that administers your VirtualBox virtual machines. On Windows and OS X, this simply means the same user that you log into your machine as when you run VirtualBox.

== NOTE ==

If your web server and your VirtualBox installation are on 2 different hosts, you may need to add:

  -H IP.ADDRESS.OF.HOST

to the command line of vboxwebsrv. Where IP.ADDRESS.OF.HOST is the IP address of your VirtualBox host, accessible by your web server. If this is not specified, vboxwebsrv will run on 127.0.0.1, which is not accessible outside of itself.

=== VirtualBox 3.x OSE ===

For *VirtualBox 3.x OSE* users, you must execute the following command:

   VBoxManage setproperty websrvauthlibrary null

This disables authentication for vboxwebsrv. At the moment, this is the only way for an application to communicate with the OSE version of vboxwebsrv. Taking security into consideration, only run vboxwebsrv OSE on a non-public network. 

If you are not sure whether or not you are running the OSE version of VirtualBox, you can run:

   vboxwebsrv -h

If the first line contains "OSE" (e.g. Oracle VM VirtualBox web service version x.x.x_OSE), you are running the OSE version of VirtualBox.

==FreeBSD==

To install the port:

   cd /usr/ports/www/phpvirtualbox/ && make install clean

To add the package:

   pkg_add -r phpvirtualbox

Thanks to Bernhard Fröhlich for his time and effort in creating the FreeBSD port.

==Linux==

Linux users should use the instructions for vboxweb-service found at http://code.google.com/p/phpvirtualbox/wiki/vboxwebServiceConfigLinux

==Solaris==

Assuming your VirtualBox installation is run by the user *vbox* and vboxwebsrv is located in /opt/VirtualBox, you may start vboxwebsrv by running the following command as *vbox*:

 /opt/VirtualBox/vboxwebsrv -b --logfile /dev/null >/dev/null

Solaris users will also have to follow the same instructions outlined in the VirtualBox OSE section above, or vboxwebsrv will fail to authenticate.

==Windows==

On Windows (assuming your VirtualBox installation is located in C:\Program Files\Oracle\VirtualBox), the following command will start vboxwebsrv:

 "C:\Program Files\Oracle\VirtualBox\vboxwebsrv.exe" >nul

Note that *>nul* is needed so that vboxwebsrv does not send its output to the command prompt window. Without it, performance will be severely degraded.

==OS X==

In OS X, start Terminal (usually located in Applications -> Utilities) and enter the following commands:

  cd /Applications/VirtualBox.app/Contents/MacOS

  ./vboxwebsrv >/dev/null

Running /usr/bin/vboxwebsrv or not running the command from within /Applications/VirtualBox.app/Contents/MacOS seems to crash vboxwebsrv

= phpVirtualBox =

  # Download the latest version of phpVirtualBox from the Downloads tab
  # Unzip the downloaded file and copy the resulting files / folders to a folder accessible by your [http://code.google.com/p/phpvirtualbox/wiki/WebServerAndPHPInstall web server]
  # Rename config.php-example to config.php and edit to reflect your VirtualBox settings.
  # Navigate to the resulting folder in your web browser.
  # Default login is admin / admin

==Arch Linux Considerations==
In Arch Linux, be sure to edit /etc/php/php.ini, and uncomment the following lines:

{{{
;extension=json.so
;extension=soap.so
}}}

by removing the ';' at the beginning of each. Then restart apache.

==Windows Considerations==
phpVirtualBox's location setting in config.php cannot be set to 'localhost' use 127.0.0.1 instead. E.g. http://127.0.0.1:18083/

= VirtualBox >= 4.0 - Remote Console Access =
In order to access a VM's console over RDP (via phpVirtualBox's console tab, or other RDP client) you must install the *Oracle VM VirtualBox Extension Pack* from: http://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads

Please refer to VirtualBox's documentation for instructions on installing extension packs.


_Note: Oracle, Unix, Linux, Windows, VirtualBox, OS X, and all other trademarks are the property of their respective owners._