#summary Considerations when upgrading phpVirtualBox
#labels Support
#sidebar TableOfContents

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Introduction =

phpVirtualBox can be "upgraded" by copying the downloaded files over your existing phpVirtualBox installation. Choose to overwrite existing files if prompted.

You may wish to create an entirely new folder for a new version of phpVirtualBox and that is fine too.

= Configuration File =

Do not use the config.php file from your old phpVirtualBox installation. New configuration items may have been added and using an old version may cause undesirable results. Instead, edit the config.php file that is distributed with the new version and change as needed.

For instance, the config.php file distributed with phpVirtualBox for !VirtualBox 3.x will not work in phpVirtualBox for !VirtualBox 4.x.

= Upgrading from !VirtualBox 3.x to 4.x =

== Authentication Update ===

If you have upgraded from !VirtualBox 3.2.x, you will have to run the following commands on your !VirtualBox host *as the same user that runs vboxwebsrv*:
{{{
    VBoxManage setproperty vrdeauthlibrary default 

    VBoxManage setproperty websrvauthlibrary default 
}}}
=== Windows ===
NOTE: On windows, start a command prompt and type:
{{{
    cd "%ProgramFiles%\Oracle\VirtualBox"
}}}
Before entering the VBoxManage commands.

== vboxwebsrv ==

After upgrading, it is a good idea to stop vboxwebsrv for the time being. If you are using the startup script distributed on this site, you may run the following command:

    /etc/init.d/vboxwebsrv stop

If your !VirtualBox host is running Linux, please see: http://code.google.com/p/phpvirtualbox/wiki/vboxwebServiceConfigLinux for a new-and-improved startup script configuration.

Then, start vboxwebsrv. If you are now using the vboxweb-service script described in the above link, you may run:

    /etc/init.d/vboxweb-service start

If you are not, you may start vboxwebsrv using the same method you had been using for !VirtualBox 3.x.

= Post Upgrade =

It is always a good idea to clear your web browser's cache after upgrading.