#summary Web Server and PHP installation / configuration

= Introduction =

phpVirtualBox requires a web server with PHP >= 5.2.0 installed in order to run. The following may help you install these on the machine on which you intend to run phpVirtualBox. If you already have a web server with PHP installed, you may simply copy phpVirtualBox to the document root folder of that web server.


== Windows ==

On Windows, instead of mucking around with IIS, you may install XAMPP or XAMPPLite from [http://www.apachefriends.org/]. The installation is very straight-forward and includes a recent version of PHP (certainly greater than 5.2.0).

After installation, launch the XAMPP control panel and click Start next to Apache. You can copy phpVirtualBox to XAMPP's htdocs folder. Typically C:\xampp\htdocs or C:\xampplite\htdocs.

== Linux ==

The details of installing a web server and PHP differ greatly from distribution to distribution. Please follow the instructions for your distribution as provided by the distribution maintainer(s). In most cases, you simply install apache2 and the apache2 php5 module using your distribution's package management system. E.g.

  apt-get install apache2

  apt-get install libapache2-mod-php5

After installation, copy phpVirtualBox to the document root of your web server. This is typically /var/www or /usr/local/apache2/htdocs.

== OS X ==
On OS X, you may install XAMPP or XAMPPLite from [http://www.apachefriends.org/]. The installation is very straight-forward and includes a recent version of PHP (certainly greater than 5.2.0).

After installation, launch the XAMPP control panel and click Start next to Apache. You can copy phpVirtualBox to XAMPP's htdocs folder. Typically /Applications/XAMPP/htdocs/.

== Solaris ==
On Solaris, you may install XAMPP or XAMPPLite from [http://www.apachefriends.org/]. The installation is very straight-forward and includes a recent version of PHP (certainly greater than 5.2.0).

(Assuming you kept the default installation path) After installation, run the following command as root:

  /opt/xampp/xampp startapache

You can copy phpVirtualBox to XAMPP's htdocs folder. Typically /opt/xampp/htdocs/. 

= Post Installation =

Once the web server is installed you may launch phpVirtualBox by navigating to:

  http://HOSTNAME-OR-IP/phpVirtualBox

Where *HOSTNAME-OR-IP* is the hostname or IP address of the machine running the web server. If this is the same computer that you are using to view this page, you may use [http://localhost/phpVirtualBox].